---
layout: post
title: "Dec. 2014 Meetup - Diving into Node.js / Creating JavaScript DSLs / NSQ Message Queues"
description: ""
tags: [node.js, javascript, meetup, learning, dsl]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

The Seattle Node.js Meetup is pleased announce our
[meetup](http://www.meetup.com/Seattle-Node-js/events/218658035/)
on **Wednesday, Dec. 10** with talks on leading a new team into Node.js,
creating domain-specific languages in JavaScript, and using the NSQ distributed
messaging platform with Node.js. Mixpo is once again graciously
hosting us downtown.

As always, you can find all things Seattle Node.js-related at the group website:
[http://seanode.github.io/](http://seanode.github.io/). And you can reach out to
us via email at [{{site.author.email}}](mailto:{{site.author.email}}) or Twitter
at [@{{site.author.twitter}}](https://twitter.com/{{ site.author.twitter }}).

See you soon!

## Agenda

**6:30 - 7:00pm**: Start with pizza and beer, courtesy of Joyent.

**7:00pm - 8:30pm**: Listen to some awesome talks.

**8:30pm - on**: Mingle, mix, chat things Node.js-related and more as we wind
down.

<!-- more start -->

## Talks

### Things I Learned While Taking a New Team into Node.js

**[Joseph Heck](https://twitter.com/heckj) - [Renasar Technologies](http://renasar.com/)**

My team and I are all relatively new to Node.js, but not to communities. This
talk is to share a retrospective of lessons learned, things I wish I'd known, a
few "gotchas" and some interesting libraries that we've found while my whole
team made the leap into Node.js and built a new product.

Joe is a founder and VP of Engineering at Renasar Technologies. Before starting
Renasar, Joe was an early employee and VP of Engineering at Nebula, an early
Project Technical Lead in OpenStack, and Director of Cloud and Automation at the
Walt Disney Corporation.

### Creating DSLs with (JavaScript) Object Literals

**Federico Pereiro**

Every application relies on several Domain Specific Languages: HTML templates,
SQL schemas, configuration files, deployment scripts. In this talk, we will look
at how we can use JavaScript's object literals to create our own DSLs. Besides
explaining the advantages of this approach, we will go through many examples,
ranging from HTML generation to server provisioning. More importantly, we will
discuss a couple of useful design patterns in case you want to write your own
DSLs.

Federico is a full-stack JavaScript freelance developer and open source
contributor. Originally from Buenos Aires, Argentina, Federico is now taking his
work on the road, which brings him to distant and exotic places like Seattle.
Prior to this, he was a backend developer at Hinch.as and Inaka, and before that
he worked as a financial analyst.

### Scaling (breaking things) using Bitlyâ€™s NSQ and Node.js

**[Dudley Carr](http://moz.com/about/team/dudley) - [Moz](http://moz.com/)**

Bit.ly's NSQ is an incredibly powerful way to process streams of data at scale.
Moz has successfully used Bit.ly's data to large scale collection of social data
as well as use it for a pipeline of offline processing for Moz Local. The
presentation will be partly about what NSQ is and what makes it unique, and how
we used it in combination with NodeJS within Moz.

Dudley is the VP of Engineering at Moz focused on Moz Local. Dudley's 2.5 yrs at
Moz has been focused on incubating new products and extinguishing fires. Prior
to Moz, I've done startups and worked at Google for 5 yrs on Google Voice and
Chrome.

## Venue / Sponsors

[Mixpo](http://mixpo.com/) is hosting us at: 520 Pike St, Suite 1600, Seattle,
WA 98101

[Joyent](http://www.joyent.com/) is kindly sponsoring food / beverages.

<!-- more end -->
