---
layout: post
title: "March 2018 Meetup - Serverless apps + GraphQL w/ AWS AppSync"
description: ""
tags: [node.js, aws, lambda, appsync, serverless, graphql]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

The Seattle Node.js Meetup is pleased to announce our
[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/Seattle-Node-js/events/248518577/)
on **Tuesday, Match 27th**, with two talks discussing using Node.js and
GraphQL with Amazon Web Services' [AppSync](https://aws.amazon.com/appsync/)
data layer.

As always, you can find all things Seattle Node.js-related at the group website:
[http://seanode.github.io/](http://seanode.github.io/). And you can reach out to
us via email at [{{site.author.email}}](mailto:{{site.author.email}}) or Twitter
at [@{{site.author.twitter}}](https://twitter.com/{{ site.author.twitter }}).

See you soon!

## Agenda

* **6:30pm - 7:00pm**: Doors open, hang out with your fellow developers. Grab
  some snacks and beverages courtesy of Gravity Payments.

* **7:00pm - 8:10pm**: Learn how to wire up production, data-backed apps using
  GraphQL and Node.js with two talks. A single Q&A will follow both talks.

* **8:15pm - 8:30pm-ish**: Mingle, mix, chat things Node.js-related and more as
  we wind down.

<!-- more start -->

## Talks

**[Rohan Deshpande](https://twitter.com/appwiz) - Sr. Software Engineer AWS Mobile**

**[Richard Threlkeld](https://twitter.com/undef_obj) - Sr. Product Manager AWS Mobile**

Rohan and Richard are part of the AWS Mobile teams that delivered [AWS
AppSync](https://aws.amazon.com/appsync/) and [AWS
Amplify](https://github.com/aws/aws-amplify) in 2017. They work with customers
building Serverless infrastructures with GraphQL, AWS Lambda, and other AWS
technologies. Prior to this Richard spent several years building Big Data
solutions and mobile architectures for AWS customers, and Rohan worked on
several AWS services such as SNS, Pinpoint, and Device Farm.

### Data fetching & batching with GraphQL using AWS Lambda and AWS AppSync

In this session we'll cover some of the basics of AWS AppSync functionality and
then dive deep on using Node.js in a Lambda function to perform GraphQL
operations and manipulate fields. We'll also show how you can perform fine
grained authorization checks using different controls or database systems.
Finally we'll show how you can use a Node.js client to interact with AWS AppSync
and perform GraphQL operations.

### Queries, Mutations, and Pub/Sub with AWS AppSync and Alexa

In this session, we will build an Alexa skill that interacts with AWS AppSync
and performs queries and mutations. We will show you how to easily synchronize
actions performed by the skill with your mobile and web apps.

## Sponsor

**[Gravity Payments](https://gravitypayments.com/)** has graciously agreed to
host the event. Gravity Payments is located on the rooftop floor of 5601 22nd
Ave NW, Ste 200, Seattle, WA 98107

<!-- more end -->
